We ended the last video with the classification accuracy of 77 percent.
However, there are a few more knobs we can turn to improve this performance.
We have our ever increasing set of imports.
I've moved the future generation code into
activity classifier utils because you've seen that enough times.
So in the previous video,
we built a classifier that had 100 trees in
the forest and each tree had a maximum depth of four.
But how do we know that this is really the optimal configuration of our classifier?
At that time we didn't, we just picked our best guess.
But now we're going to optimize these parameters and see if we can do better.
So we'll search this range of values for the number of trees in
the forest and then we'll sweep the maximum tree depth from two to six.
Then for each pair of hyperparameters,
we will compute a new confusion matrix and build a new classifier.
You should note that we set this class weight parameter to
balanced because as we saw previously,
our data set is imbalanced.
We have fewer running data points than walking and biking.
We don't know or we have no reason to believe that in the test
set this imbalance will continue to exist.
So we tell sklearn to build
a random forest classifier that is unbiased with respect to activity class.
Next, we use our leave-one-subject-out cross-validation
to split the data set into training and test sets.
We try and test and compute the confusion matrix on our model as we did previously.
We then compute the classification accuracy and keep track of
the classification accuracy and the hyperparameters that resulted in a table.
When we look at this table,
we can see that it has one row per hyperparameter configuration,
as well as the classification accuracy.
So we can figure out what our best hyperparameters are
by looking at the row with the highest classification accuracy.
It turns out that if we reduce our tree depth to two,
we have now significantly increased our accuracy from 77 percent to 89 percent.
Just by reducing the maximum tree depth to two,
we have significantly increased our classification accuracy.
If we went from 77 percent to 89 percent.
By reducing the depth to two,
we are regularizing our model.
Regularization is an important topic in
machine learning and it's our best way to avoid overfitting.
That's why we see an increase in the cross-validated performance.
But we just use the entire data set many times to figure out the optimal hyperparameters.
In some sense, this is also overfitting.
Our 89 percent classification accuracy is
likely too high and not the actual generalized performance.
In the next video, we can see what our actual performance might
be if we used our data set to optimize our hyperparameters.